bangcommands.md, before:

---
layout: documentation
title: Bang Commands
weight: 3
nav: docs
---

Bang Commands
=============
"Bang commands" (called such because they start with a bang "!") are used in *Smelt* 
to implement powerful custom commands. Some are built into *Smelt*, others can be added using 
the plugins feature.

Built in commands
=================

Loops and events
----------------

### Explanation
Commands for *loops* (20-ticks-per-second continous commands) and *events* (run-once commands) are built into 
*Smelt*. These bang commands require the `bang-commands-setup.mcc` module to be installed into your map. 
You will be prompted to do this by *Smelt* when using them.

The custom commands use Minecraft's scoreboard tag feature to work. 
The setup module created an entity named "OC-SYSTEM", and this entity runs the loops and events. 

For example; if there is a loop named 'GameRunning', the OC-SYSTEM entity will be tagged 'loop_GameRunning' 
while the loop is active. For an event named 'StartGame' to run, OC-SYSTEM will be tagged 'event_StartGame'.

----

### The `!loop` command
Usage: `!loop <loopName>`

This command is used define a 20-ticks-per-second continous looping chain of commands. 
The commands following the loop command will be preceded by a conditional repeating command block that 
will only execute if `!start_loop` has been called in the previous tick. 


	!loop GameRunning
		>{"type":"chain", "conditional":false}
		/scoreboard players tag @a remove HasSpeed
		/scoreboard players tag @a add HasSpeed {ActiveEffects:[{Id:1b}]}
		/effect @a[tag=!HasSpeed] minecraft:speed 1 3 true

----

### The `!start_loop` command
Usage: `!start_loop <loopName>`

This command is used to start a loop (defined using `!loop`) in the next tick. 
When started, the loop will continue until `!stop_loop` is called.


	# TURN ON PAINT
	>{"type":"impulse", "auto":false}
		!start_loop Paint
		>{"type":"chain", "auto":true}
			/say TURNED ON PAINT


----

### The `!stop_loop` command
Usage: `!stop_loop <loopName>`

This command is used to stop a loop (defined using `!loop`) in the next tick. 


	# TURN ON PAINT
	>{"type":"impulse", "auto":false}
		!stop_loop Paint
		>{"type":"chain", "auto":true}
			/say TURNED OFF PAINT

----

### The `!event` command
Usage: `!event <eventName>`

This command is used define a run-once chain of commands. 
The commands following the event command will be preceded by a conditional repeating command block that 
will only execute if `!start_event` has been called in the previous tick. 


	# CYCLE POWERUPS
	!event CyclePowerups
		>{"type":"chain", "conditional":false}
		/scoreboard players set @e[name=SYSTEM] countdown 600
		/execute @r[tag=randomPowerUp] ~ ~ ~ blockdata ~ ~ ~ {auto:1b}
		/execute @e[tag=randomPowerUp] ~ ~ ~ blockdata ~ ~ ~ {auto:0b}


----

### The `!start_event` command
Usage: `!start_event <eventName>`

This command is used to start an event (defined using `!event`) in the next tick. 


	# TURN ON POWERUPS
	>{"type":"impulse", "auto":false}
		!start_event CyclePowerups
		>{"type":"chain", "auto":true}
		!start_loop Powerups
			/say TURNED ON PAINT

---

Manage scoreboard objectives
----------------------------

### The `!reset_objective` command
Usage: `!reset_objective <objective> <criteria>`

This command is used to destroy and re-create a scoreboard objective in one command. Useful for setup chains.


	!reset_objective lobbyStatus dummy LOBBY STATUS
	
---	

Mathematical expressions
------------------------

### The `!math` command
Usage: `!math <objective>.<selector> <operator> <expression`

This command can be used to create complex mathematical expressions. Normal mathematical operator precendence applies. e.g. `3 + 4 * 5` is `23` but `(3 + 4) * 5` is `35`.

	/scoreboard objectives add money dummy
	!math money.@r += 100
	!math money.Notch = (money.@r * 100 + 42) / 10

Commit message:

Add docs for init bang command

bangcommands.md, after:

---
layout: documentation
title: Bang Commands
weight: 3
nav: docs
---

Bang Commands
=============
"Bang commands" (called such because they start with a bang "!") are used in *Smelt* 
to implement powerful custom commands. Some are built into *Smelt*, others can be added using 
the plugins feature.

Built in commands
=================

Initial command
---------------

### The `!init` command
Usage: `!init <command>`

This command it used to define commands that should be executes when a module it installed, but don't need to be included in the command blocks or executed again later. To reexecute the commands, the module would have to be reinstalled.

	!init say Installing Module

**Note:** The `<command>` parameter must be a vanilla Minecraft command and cannot (yet) be a nested bang command. The leading slash "/" on the Minecraft command should not be included.

Loops and events
----------------

### Explanation
Commands for *loops* (20-ticks-per-second continous commands) and *events* (run-once commands) are built into 
*Smelt*. These bang commands require the `bang-commands-setup.mcc` module to be installed into your map. 
You will be prompted to do this by *Smelt* when using them.

The custom commands use Minecraft's scoreboard tag feature to work. 
The setup module created an entity named "OC-SYSTEM", and this entity runs the loops and events. 

For example; if there is a loop named 'GameRunning', the OC-SYSTEM entity will be tagged 'loop_GameRunning' 
while the loop is active. For an event named 'StartGame' to run, OC-SYSTEM will be tagged 'event_StartGame'.

----

### The `!loop` command
Usage: `!loop <loopName>`

This command is used define a 20-ticks-per-second continous looping chain of commands. 
The commands following the loop command will be preceded by a conditional repeating command block that 
will only execute if `!start_loop` has been called in the previous tick. 


	!loop GameRunning
		>{"type":"chain", "conditional":false}
		/scoreboard players tag @a remove HasSpeed
		/scoreboard players tag @a add HasSpeed {ActiveEffects:[{Id:1b}]}
		/effect @a[tag=!HasSpeed] minecraft:speed 1 3 true

----

### The `!start_loop` command
Usage: `!start_loop <loopName>`

This command is used to start a loop (defined using `!loop`) in the next tick. 
When started, the loop will continue until `!stop_loop` is called.


	# TURN ON PAINT
	>{"type":"impulse", "auto":false}
		!start_loop Paint
		>{"type":"chain", "auto":true}
			/say TURNED ON PAINT


----

### The `!stop_loop` command
Usage: `!stop_loop <loopName>`

This command is used to stop a loop (defined using `!loop`) in the next tick. 


	# TURN ON PAINT
	>{"type":"impulse", "auto":false}
		!stop_loop Paint
		>{"type":"chain", "auto":true}
			/say TURNED OFF PAINT

----

### The `!event` command
Usage: `!event <eventName>`

This command is used define a run-once chain of commands. 
The commands following the event command will be preceded by a conditional repeating command block that 
will only execute if `!start_event` has been called in the previous tick. 


	# CYCLE POWERUPS
	!event CyclePowerups
		>{"type":"chain", "conditional":false}
		/scoreboard players set @e[name=SYSTEM] countdown 600
		/execute @r[tag=randomPowerUp] ~ ~ ~ blockdata ~ ~ ~ {auto:1b}
		/execute @e[tag=randomPowerUp] ~ ~ ~ blockdata ~ ~ ~ {auto:0b}


----

### The `!start_event` command
Usage: `!start_event <eventName>`

This command is used to start an event (defined using `!event`) in the next tick. 


	# TURN ON POWERUPS
	>{"type":"impulse", "auto":false}
		!start_event CyclePowerups
		>{"type":"chain", "auto":true}
		!start_loop Powerups
			/say TURNED ON PAINT

---

Manage scoreboard objectives
----------------------------

### The `!reset_objective` command
Usage: `!reset_objective <objective> <criteria>`

This command is used to destroy and re-create a scoreboard objective in one command. Useful for setup chains.


	!reset_objective lobbyStatus dummy LOBBY STATUS
	
---	

Mathematical expressions
------------------------

### The `!math` command
Usage: `!math <objective>.<selector> <operator> <expression`

This command can be used to create complex mathematical expressions. Normal mathematical operator precendence applies. e.g. `3 + 4 * 5` is `23` but `(3 + 4) * 5` is `35`.

	/scoreboard objectives add money dummy
	!math money.@r += 100
	!math money.Notch = (money.@r * 100 + 42) / 10
